# Probabilistic Framework for Behavior Characterization of Traffic Participants Enabling Long Term Prediction
This research aims at developing new methods that predict the behaviors of the human driven traffic participants to enable safe operation of autonomous vehicles in complex traffic environments. Autonomous vehicles are expected to operate amongst human driven conventional vehicles in the traffic at least for the next few decades. For safe navigation they will need to infer the intents as well as the behaviors of the human traffic participants using extrinsically observable information, so that their trajectories can be predicted for a time horizon long enough to do a predictive risk analysis and gracefully avert any risky situation. This research approaches above challenge by recognizing that any maneuver performed by a human driver can be divided into four stages that depend on the surrounding context: intent determination, maneuver preparation, gap acceptance and maneuver execution. It builds on the hypothesis that for a given driver, the behavior not only spans across these four maneuver stages, but across multiple maneuvers. As a result, identifying the driver behavior in any of these stages can help characterize the nature of all the subsequent maneuvers that the driver is likely to perform, thus resulting in a more accurate prediction for a longer time horizon. To enable this, a novel probabilistic framework is proposed that couples the different maneuver stages of the observed traffic participant together and associates them to a driving style. The framework is implemented by extending an Interacting Multiple Model approach with contextual information of the observed traffic participant. The classification of the driving style of the traffic participant (behavior characterization) is demonstrated for two use case scenarios in this repository. The proposed contextual IMM (CIMM) framework shows improvements in the performance of the behavior classification of the traffic participants compared to the IMM for the identified use case scenarios. This outcome warrants great potential of this approach for autonomous vehicles on public roads.


The entry point is in Sim Scenarios folder:

1. Run the 'lane_change_noisy_measurements_generator.m' or the 'lane_change_measurements_generator.m' file. It generates the ground truth and calls the contextual_IMM_main.m file.
2. contextual_IMM_main.m runs the predictions for the synthetic measurements and calls post_processing_plots.m.
3. pred_post_processing_matlab_ws_x_coord_mod.m generates the animations for the scenario plot.

